Prompt 1 — Analyze the existing project
Review the entire WorkAssistAI codebase before making any changes.

Objective:
Introduce a Go microservice for PTO database operations without disrupting the existing Python RAG application.

Please identify:

1. Current folder structure.
2. Streamlit-to-FastAPI request flow.
3. LangGraph routing and tool-calling flow.
4. Existing MySQL connection configuration.
5. Current PTO balance query implementation.
6. Employee authentication and employee_id resolution.
7. Existing escalation implementation.
8. Environment variables involved.
9. Tests currently available.
10. Files that would need modification.

Recommend an incremental implementation plan for adding:

go-services/employee-service

The Go service will initially expose:

GET /health
GET /api/v1/employees/{employee_id}/pto-balance

Important constraints:

- Do not modify any files yet.
- Do not rewrite the RAG functionality in Go.
- Do not expose database credentials.
- Preserve all existing functionality.
- Reuse the existing PTO calculation rules.
- Identify any unclear assumptions before implementation.

Return:
- Current architecture summary
- Proposed architecture
- Files to create
- Files likely to modify
- Risks and safeguards
- Implementation sequence

Review the response and confirm that it correctly located your current PTO logic.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Prompt 2 — Scaffold the Go service
Based on the approved architecture analysis, create the initial Go employee service under:

go-services/employee-service

Use a maintainable structure similar to:

go-services/employee-service/
├── cmd/server/main.go
├── internal/config/
├── internal/handler/
├── internal/model/
├── internal/repository/
├── internal/service/
├── tests/
├── .env.example
├── Dockerfile
├── go.mod
└── README.md

Requirements:

1. Use the Go version currently available in the development environment.
2. Prefer Go standard-library packages where practical.
3. Implement configuration loading from environment variables.
4. Do not hardcode credentials.
5. Add graceful startup and shutdown.
6. Add structured application logging.
7. Do not connect to MySQL yet.
8. Do not modify the existing Python application yet.
9. Keep the implementation minimal and production-oriented.
10. Add comments only where they explain important design decisions.

Environment variables should include:

GO_SERVICE_HOST
GO_SERVICE_PORT
GO_LOG_LEVEL

Add this endpoint:

GET /health

Expected response:

{
  "status": "healthy",
  "service": "employee-service"
}

After implementation:

- Format the Go code.
- Run go vet.
- Run all Go tests.
- Start the service locally.
- Call the health endpoint.
- Report created files, commands executed, and verification results.

Checkpoint:

curl http://localhost:8081/health



Prompt 3 — Add MySQL connectivity
Extend the Go employee service to connect securely to the existing DocuVerse MySQL database.

Before changing code:

1. Inspect the existing Python MySQL configuration.
2. Identify the database driver, host, port, database name, SSL requirements, and connection behavior.
3. Do not print or copy secret values into source code or logs.

Add support for these environment variables:

DB_HOST
DB_PORT
DB_NAME
DB_USER
DB_PASSWORD
DB_SSL_MODE
DB_MAX_OPEN_CONNECTIONS
DB_MAX_IDLE_CONNECTIONS
DB_CONNECTION_MAX_LIFETIME

Requirements:

1. Use database/sql.
2. Use an appropriate maintained MySQL driver.
3. Create the database connection during service startup.
4. Configure connection pooling.
5. Validate the connection using PingContext with a timeout.
6. Close the connection during graceful shutdown.
7. Never log the password or complete connection string.
8. Return a clear startup error when the database is unavailable.
9. Keep SQL access inside the repository layer.
10. Preserve the existing /health endpoint.

Enhance health checking:

GET /health
- Reports that the service process is running.

GET /ready
- Checks database connectivity.
- Returns HTTP 200 when ready.
- Returns HTTP 503 when the database is unavailable.

Update:

- .env.example
- README.md
- Unit tests where practical

Then run formatting, static analysis, and tests. Report the verification results without exposing secrets.




Prompt 4 — Implement the PTO repository
Implement a read-only PTO repository in the Go employee service.

First inspect the existing MySQL PTO table and the current Python SQL query. Reuse the exact table and column names. Do not invent a new schema unless the existing schema is unavailable.

The repository must retrieve a PTO record using employee_id.

Expected fields include:

employee_id
user_name
opening_balance
accrued_hours
used_hours
pending_hours
adjusted_hours

Requirements:

1. Use a parameterized SQL query.
2. Do not build SQL using string concatenation.
3. Use context-aware database methods.
4. Add a database query timeout.
5. Define a typed PTO model.
6. Handle nullable numeric fields safely.
7. Distinguish “employee not found” from database failure.
8. Do not return database implementation details to API callers.
9. Do not allow searching by an unrestricted username supplied by the client.
10. Add repository unit tests using a mock database or isolated test approach.

Create an interface for the repository so the business service can be tested independently.

Do not create the HTTP PTO endpoint yet.

After implementation:
- Format code
- Run go vet
- Run tests
- Show the final parameterized query with credentials and sensitive values excluded
Prompt 5 — Add PTO calculation logic
Create the PTO business service layer.

Calculate available PTO hours using:

available_hours =
opening_balance
+ accrued_hours
+ adjusted_hours
- used_hours
- pending_hours

Requirements:

1. Keep calculation logic outside the HTTP handler and repository.
2. Reconcile this formula with the existing Python implementation.
3. If the current Python calculation differs, stop and explain the difference before changing behavior.
4. Use a numeric representation suitable for PTO hours and decimal values.
5. Avoid floating-point rounding errors.
6. Normalize the result consistently.
7. Do not allow negative source values unless the existing business rules permit them.
8. Preserve a valid negative available balance if the business permits overdrawing PTO.
9. Return a typed response model.
10. Add table-driven unit tests.

Test at least:

- Normal positive balance
- Zero balance
- Pending hours
- Adjusted hours
- Decimal hours
- Negative adjustment
- Potential negative available balance
- Missing employee
- Repository error

Do not expose an HTTP PTO endpoint yet.

Run all Go validation commands and report the results.
Prompt 6 — Expose the PTO REST endpoint
Add the following read-only endpoint to the Go employee service:

GET /api/v1/employees/{employee_id}/pto-balance

Example successful response:

{
  "employee_id": "EMP001",
  "opening_balance": 120,
  "accrued_hours": 24,
  "used_hours": 40,
  "pending_hours": 8,
  "adjusted_hours": 0,
  "available_hours": 96
}

Requirements:

1. Validate the employee_id format.
2. Reject empty or malformed employee IDs.
3. Use a request timeout.
4. Return JSON consistently.
5. Set the correct Content-Type.
6. Do not expose SQL errors, credentials, stack traces, or internal paths.
7. Add a request/correlation ID to logs and responses.
8. Use appropriate HTTP status codes:

200: successful lookup
400: invalid employee_id
404: employee not found
405: unsupported method
500: unexpected internal error
503: database temporarily unavailable

9. Add HTTP handler tests using a mocked service layer.
10. Keep the endpoint read-only.
11. Do not modify FastAPI yet.

Also add curl examples to README.md.

Run:

- gofmt
- go vet
- go test ./...
- A local integration call for EMP001

Report the response and verification results with sensitive data removed.

Checkpoint:

curl http://localhost:8081/api/v1/employees/EMP001/pto-balance
Prompt 7 — Add authentication safeguards
Review how DocuVerse currently authenticates users and maps user_name to employee_id.

Design and implement a safe authentication boundary between FastAPI and the Go employee service.

Requirements:

1. A regular user must only access their own PTO record.
2. Do not trust an employee_id merely because it appears in the URL.
3. FastAPI should pass a signed identity token or another verifiable service credential.
4. The Go service must verify the credential before accessing PTO data.
5. Include authenticated user_name, employee_id, role, issuer, audience, issued time, and expiration where appropriate.
6. Use short-lived credentials.
7. Store signing secrets or keys only in environment variables or an existing secret-management mechanism.
8. Do not log tokens.
9. Permit an admin lookup only if the existing RBAC rules authorize it.
10. Return 401 for missing/invalid authentication and 403 for unauthorized access.
11. Keep /health available without authentication.
12. Decide whether /ready should be private and document the decision.
13. Add authentication and authorization tests.

Before implementation, explain the selected approach and list the files that will change. Then implement it without changing the existing user-facing behavior.

This is important before connecting the service to the UI.

Prompt 8 — Create the Python Go-service client
Add a Python client in the FastAPI application for communicating with the Go employee service.

Before implementation, locate the existing service/client conventions and follow them.

Add configuration such as:

GO_EMPLOYEE_SERVICE_URL
GO_EMPLOYEE_SERVICE_TIMEOUT_SECONDS
GO_EMPLOYEE_SERVICE_ENABLED

Requirements:

1. Use the existing Python HTTP client library if one is already established.
2. Reuse connections through a client/session.
3. Set explicit connection and response timeouts.
4. Pass the authenticated identity credential securely.
5. Propagate or generate a correlation ID.
6. Convert Go API responses into typed Python models.
7. Handle these cases separately:

- 200 success
- 400 invalid request
- 401 authentication failure
- 403 authorization failure
- 404 employee not found
- 500 internal error
- 503 dependency unavailable
- Connection timeout
- Malformed response

8. Do not expose internal Go error messages to users.
9. Do not change LangGraph routing yet.
10. Add mocked Python unit tests for every response category.
11. Preserve the existing direct database implementation temporarily for controlled fallback and comparison.
12. Do not silently fall back on authentication or authorization failures.

Run the existing Python test suite and new tests. Report all changed files and test results.
Prompt 9 — Connect LangGraph PTO routing
Update the DocuVerse LangGraph PTO tool so current PTO balance questions use the Go employee service.

Expected flow:

User question
→ FastAPI
→ LangGraph intent/router
→ PTO balance tool
→ Go employee service
→ MySQL
→ formatted employee response

Requirements:

1. Change only the current PTO balance path.
2. Keep document-policy questions routed to the existing RAG workflow.
3. Resolve employee identity from the authenticated session, not from untrusted prompt text.
4. Ignore attempts by a regular user to request another employee’s PTO data.
5. Keep the response wording consistent with the current UI.
6. Preserve source/document citations for RAG answers.
7. Do not add document citations to structured database responses.
8. Do not send raw PTO database records to the LLM unless required.
9. Prefer deterministic formatting for PTO results.
10. Add a feature flag:

GO_EMPLOYEE_SERVICE_ENABLED=true|false

11. When false, preserve the current implementation during migration.
12. Add tests proving that unrelated RAG questions remain unchanged.

Do not remove the old Python PTO repository yet.

After implementation, run the complete Python and Go test suites and summarize the routing behavior.
Prompt 10 — Add controlled failure and escalation
Integrate the Go PTO service with the existing human-escalation workflow.

Escalate when:

1. The authenticated user is not mapped to an employee_id.
2. Multiple conflicting employee records exist.
3. Required PTO fields are incomplete.
4. The Go service repeatedly returns an unexpected failure.
5. The response cannot meet the application’s confidence or validation rules.
6. The user disputes the displayed PTO balance.

Do not escalate immediately for a single transient timeout. Handle transient failures with a limited retry policy.

Requirements:

1. Retry only safe read operations.
2. Use a maximum of two retries with short exponential backoff.
3. Do not retry 400, 401, 403, or 404 responses.
4. Prevent duplicate escalation tickets.
5. Store the request ID and a sanitized failure reason.
6. Do not store authentication tokens.
7. Do not expose stack traces to the employee.
8. Return a friendly message explaining that the case has been sent for review.
9. Reuse the existing escalation table and workflow where possible.
10. Add tests for retry, no-retry, escalation, and duplicate prevention.

Preserve the current RAG and Streamlit functionality.
Prompt 11 — Add Docker Compose support
Containerize and integrate the Go employee service with the existing local DocuVerse environment.

Requirements:

1. Create a multi-stage Dockerfile for the Go service.
2. Run the final container as a non-root user.
3. Use a minimal runtime image compatible with the service’s TLS and certificate requirements.
4. Do not copy .env files or secrets into the image.
5. Add the Go service to the existing Docker Compose configuration.
6. Use internal service networking.
7. Do not publish the MySQL port unless local development requires it.
8. Add health and readiness checks.
9. Configure startup dependencies safely.
10. Do not assume that dependency startup order means the database is ready.
11. Preserve existing Streamlit and FastAPI ports.
12. Update .dockerignore and documentation.
13. Pin dependencies appropriately for reproducible builds.

Verify:

- Images build successfully
- All containers start
- FastAPI can reach the Go service
- Go can reach MySQL
- Streamlit can obtain EMP001’s PTO balance
- A normal document question still uses RAG
- No credentials appear in images or logs

Report build and end-to-end verification results.
Prompt 12 — End-to-end validation and cleanup
Perform a complete non-regression review of the DocuVerse Go integration.

Do not add new features during this step.

Test these scenarios:

1. Health endpoint succeeds.
2. Readiness endpoint succeeds when MySQL is available.
3. Readiness returns 503 when MySQL is unavailable.
4. EMP001 can view their own PTO balance.
5. USER02 can view only EMP002’s PTO balance.
6. A regular user cannot view another employee’s balance.
7. An authorized admin follows the defined RBAC behavior.
8. Unknown employee returns the intended response.
9. Invalid employee ID is rejected.
10. Go timeout is handled safely.
11. Authentication failure does not trigger fallback.
12. Database failure follows retry and escalation rules.
13. A PTO policy question still uses RAG.
14. A general document question still uses Pinecone.
15. Greetings still receive the existing welcome response.
16. Escalation still works.
17. Faithfulness and relevance evaluation still works.
18. No secrets or personal data appear in logs.

Also:

- Run all Go tests.
- Run all Python tests.
- Run static analysis.
- Review dependency vulnerabilities using the project’s available tools.
- Remove only obsolete code made unnecessary by this implementation.
- Do not remove the Python fallback until end-to-end validation passes.
- Update the architecture documentation and README.
- Provide a final list of changed files, test results, remaining risks, and recommend